---
layout: post
title: Welcome!
categories: [general]
fullview: false
comments: true
---

###### (yes, I was tempted to title it *Hello World*)
**Is this going to be the last blog I start?**  
*I highly doubt it*.  
**Is this blog going to be updated regularly?**  
*I wish so, but I know myself too much to believe it*.  
**Do I really believe in this blog and I want it to stay alive?**  
*YES*!


So, as the title says: Welcome!
Since there is a slight chance that you reach this page without knowing me, here's a little compilation of info about me:

I was born in 1989 (that makes me 29 years old at the time this post is written) in [Sanremo](https://www.google.it/maps/place/18038+Sanremo+IM/@43.8164044,7.7833421,13z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x12cdf5450348b727:0x3c017283ac41265d!8m2!3d43.8159671!4d7.7760567?hl=it), and I lived there until the age of 18, when I moved to [Genova](https://www.google.it/maps/place/Genova+GE/@44.4469777,8.8908321,12z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x12d34152dcd49aad:0x236a84f11881620a!8m2!3d44.4056499!4d8.946256?hl=it) to study at the local university. I got my bachelor and master degrees in Computer Science, and then pursued a PhD that I managed, with much effort and sweat, to obtain May 2018. 
After that, I got a one-year contract as Post Doctoral Researcher at [IIT (Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia)](https://iit.it).

During my academic years I developed a natural love for programming, and especially for C++, a language whith which I have a love/hate relationship (much more love than hate since I started studying it also in my free time) and for anything related to Computer Graphics and Geometric Modeling/Computational Geometry.

I recently decided to leave the academic path and become a full-time software developer, and got a contract with an irish company. Starting from 2019 I will live in my third city, this time in a new country, as I will move to [Dublino](https://www.google.it/maps/place/Dublino,+Irlanda/@53.3243201,-6.2457041,11z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x48670e80ea27ac2f:0xa00c7a9973171a0!8m2!3d53.3498053!4d-6.2603097?hl=it).

**What can I expect from this blog?**

That's a nice question, for which I unfortunately don't have a real answer. I expect to post mainly things about software development, focusing on C++. 
I would like to share with you what I learn; I don't claim to be an expert C++ programmer, so don't expect any groundbreaking concept here; but I would like this place to become a nice gathering for people going through my same path.


However, don't be surprised if something else appears in your feed; as the short bio says, I love photography (I'm an amateur photographer), sports (big fan of Boston Red Sox**, reading, travelin, trekking and many other things, so I will probably talk about all this other topics from time to time!


**TL;DR: I know, this first post is way too long, I promise you I'm not usually this verbose!!**
