---

layout: post
title: A journey into Rust
categories: [general,programming,Rust]
fullview: false
comments: true

excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

So, the day has finally arrived!

If you haven't lived under a rock for the past years, you've probably heard of [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/), a moderately recent programming language developed inside Mozilla Research in the late 2000s.

If you don't, it will be impossible to summarize it in a few words, but let's say that is a compiled language, focused on high performance (ideally comparable to those of C++) and memory safety.
<!--more-->
It is constantly increasing in popularity, named the third-most-loved programming language in the 2015 Stack Overflow [annual survey](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2015) and there a lot of experiments going on to port existing software to Rust (e.g. Tor, originally in C, is experimenting porting to Rust).



### So, what does that have to do with me?

Well, if you know me, you know  that I'm always up for two things: challenges, and learning new stuff.

This seems like a perfect chance for me, then. For a while I've been considering trying to expand my knowledge into programming languages unknown to me... I've been undecided between Haskell and Rust for a while, and just lately I finally decided to go for the latter!



#### How will I do it?

I'm not a big fan of textbooks, tutorials, and such.

I prefer to get dirty with my hands in the code, get mad when things don't work, and then finally solve the problem.

So, you probably remember about the [Advent Of Code 2018](https://bznein.github.io/general/programming/challenges/2019/07/22/I'm-Not-Dead.html), right? Then one I solved entirely in C++ with much sweat and blood?

Well, I decided to tackle (most of) it again, this time in Rust, to prepare for AoC 2019!

I started recently and, at the moment of writing this post, I just completed Day 1 and Day 2: it has already been hard and difficult, but I enjoyed every moment of it and can't wait to try Day3!.

As usual, I will publish all my code on Github, on [this repository](https://github.com/bznein/AoC-2018-Rust). And of course, the next few posts on this blog will be focused on my journey into Rust, covering the most interesting parts of the language that I get to discover during it.



**Let the journey begin!**



